CURRENT REVISION — USB opening centered on corrected connector
Source: usb_centered_stand.py. Output: output/usb-centered/.
Rebuild and targeted validation: .venv/bin/python finish_usb_centered.py

Opening remains 12 x 7 mm with R0.8 rounded corners, moved 2.88048 mm toward the display.
Its depth center follows the manufacturer USB shell midpoint plus the
corrected board placement. Front/rear shell clearance is 1.42000 mm each.
The full metal-shell silhouette is checked for clear passage through the
housing wall. Cable overmould is not modeled. Added wall material is checked
against assembled parts and sampled PCB, battery and cover insertion.
Rear cover and all other dimensions remain unchanged. No Bambu reload.

PREVIOUS REVISION

CURRENT REVISION — matching curved holder bases and recess
Source: curved_holder_stand.py. Output: output/curved-holder-bases/.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python curved_holder_stand.py

Corrects the radial offset seen in the user's slicer screenshot, which was
not resolved by the previous axial-depth change. The round recess radius and
holder-base inside radius now both use 18.40 mm. Holder blanks extend inward
before being trimmed with the same cylinder, so their inner faces follow the
recess curve instead of leaving a gap from a flat tangent face. The cutting
operation stops at the PCB-catching lips; their 0.8 mm overlap remains.
Added material was checked against the PCB, battery, cover and sampled PCB
insertion motion; both meshes remain single valid watertight solids.
Only the housing changes. The flat-ended backplate from aligned-holders fits.
No automatic Bambu reload for this revision.

PREVIOUS REVISION — superseded for radial holder/recess alignment

CURRENT REVISION — aligned holder bases and removed USB-side blocks
Source: aligned_holders_stand.py. Output: output/aligned-holders/.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python aligned_holders_stand.py

The holder bases now reach the recessed display-seat plane at local Z=-1.2,
replacing their old -2.3 mm termination. PCB-catching lips retain their
0.5 mm rear clearance and 0.8 mm radial overlap. Removed the two short shaped
USB-side guide blocks identified in the user's screenshot. Connector recess
and 12 x 7 mm side opening remain. Housing width stays 48 mm.
Raised rectangular/circular contact pads on all three rear PCB fingers are
removed, leaving flat ends. This increases rear clearance; the three front
lips continue to capture the PCB. Both body and rear cover now change.
Do not automatically reopen Bambu Studio for this revision.

PREVIOUS REVISION — superseded for holder bases and USB-side guides

CURRENT REVISION — 48 mm housing and exact 12 x 7 mm USB opening
Source: compact_usb_stand.py. Output: output/compact-usb/.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python compact_usb_stand.py

Case width reduced 52 -> 48 mm, bringing the USB-side exterior wall 2 mm closer
to the socket. Modeled USB metal nose is 2.92 mm behind the outside wall.
USB opening is 12 x 7 mm, retaining the previous centre and 3 mm rearward shift.
Removed the enlarged flare: the external mouth also remains 12 x 7 mm.
Screen centre raised 2 mm to keep overall height approximately unchanged while
narrowing the rounded crown. Crown inner wall is 1.2 mm; flat walls remain 2.4 mm.
Retainer arms moved inward and upper stop slightly lowered for crown clearance.
The battery wedge remains 37.2 mm wide like the pocket, ending 3 mm lower to
clear the narrower roof. Battery position and 10 degree tilt are unchanged.
Three bottom PCB lips, corrected 1.6 + 2.3 mm stack, 0.15 mm display seating
gap, and press-fit rim with battery-corner breaks remain. Both parts changed.
Keep Bambu Studio closed until requested. Physical fit and cable insertion need
checking; the printed opening dimensions depend on printer calibration.

PREVIOUS REVISION — superseded for shell width, USB size and internal supports

CURRENT REVISION — three lower PCB retaining lips
Source: three_lower_hooks.py. Output: output/three-lower-hooks/.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python three_lower_hooks.py

Added a matching return lip to the centre-bottom front-shell finger.
The three lowest retaining positions are now 240, 270 and 300 degrees.
Each lip overlaps the PCB rim radially by 0.8 mm, with 0.5 mm clearance
behind the seated PCB and a 1.2 mm lip thickness. Component-side clearance
and the established tilt/lower/pivot insertion path are checked for the added lip.
Only the body changes. The corrected-pcb-fit rear cover remains compatible.
All corrected 3.9 mm module dimensions, side-only USB-tab guides, 1.2 mm
front lip and 0.15 mm display seating gap remain as below.
Bambu Studio must remain closed until the user requests it.

PREVIOUS REVISION — superseded only for the centre-bottom PCB holder

CURRENT REVISION — corrected 3.9 mm module and USB-side holders
Source: corrected_pcb_stand.py. Output: output/corrected-pcb-fit/.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python corrected_pcb_stand.py

Uses measured PCB 1.6 mm + display 2.3 mm = 3.9 mm, including a conservative
full-tab display connector envelope at the display height. Original STEP is
preserved; its rear components remain an approximate reference.
Removed the lowered shelves under the USB extension. Shaped side guides
locate the corrected tab/connector envelope laterally, with 0.15 mm clearance,
without a shelf under it. Guides occupy local Z=-2.5 to -1.1 near the front
face, leaving the rear clear for tilted insertion. Actual connector outline
is not measured; the full PCB-tab outline is reserved as its envelope.
Recessed the display and connector into the front, leaving a 1.2 mm front lip
and 0.15 mm seating gap. Display front is local Z=-1.35; PCB back=-5.25.
Lower PCB pockets and rear retainers follow the corrected board position.
Assembly uses a 12 degree rearward tilt and 1.2 mm raised approach, then slides
down while progressively pivoting into its seat.
USB opening remains 14 x 7.4 mm with the previously requested 3 mm rearward
shift. Battery remains at 10 degrees; both pocket and support are 37.2 mm wide.
Press-fit rim retains the accepted battery-corner gaps. Both printed parts changed.
Load the battery into the detached cover raised 3.1 mm along its tilted length,
then lower it into the pocket. Seated and sampled insertion clearances passed
for the corrected model; both exported meshes are watertight.
Do not open Bambu Studio until requested. Physical fit and cable insertion
still require confirmation; source STEP includes simplified components.

HISTORICAL NOTES — prior clearance claims superseded by the corrected module

MEASURED STACK CORRECTION: user measured PCB 1.6 mm + display 2.3 mm = 3.9 mm. Updated reference import and corrected-local STEP. Rear PCB plane held fixed; display now projects 1.9 mm farther forward. USB-tab display connector follows LCD height. Existing housing STLs have NOT been refitted to this stack and are not cleared for printing.

REFERENCE CORRECTION: USB-side display connector envelope added in assembly_study.import_board. Previous enclosure fit checks are superseded; see reference/display-connector-correction.txt. Housing has not yet been refitted for this correction.

CURRENT REVISION — press-fit inner rim, no backplate locking fingers
Source: press_fit_stand.py. Output: output/press-fit-rim/.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python press_fit_stand.py

Backplate has an internal locating rim that slides inside the front housing.
Depth 3.5 mm, wall 1.4 mm, basic clearance 0.15 mm, leading bevel 0.4 mm.
Four shallow side ribs project 0.20 mm, giving 0.05 mm local interference.
Two breaks in the upper curved rim clear the tilted battery corners.
Rim sections remain connected to the backplate. The three PCB supports remain.
Snap fingers, catch recesses and old lower alignment blocks are removed.
Both body and backplate changed. Print the backplate outside-face down.
PLA press-fit force depends on printer accuracy and requires a physical fit check.

USB remains its original 14 x 7.4 mm size, shifted 3 mm away from the front.
Housing remains 1 mm taller with the battery angled 10 degrees on its wedge.
The wedge now matches the pocket outer width: both are 37.2 mm wide.
Do not open Bambu Studio until the user requests it; further changes are pending.

PREVIOUS REVISION — superseded for backplate retention

CURRENT REVISION — original USB opening size, position corrected
Source: usb_position_only.py. Output: output/usb-position-only/.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python usb_position_only.py

USB opening restored to 14 x 7.4 mm, retaining the flared entry.
Original local bounds -10 to -2.6 mm move together 3 mm along local -Z,
away from the front: final bounds -13 to -5.6 mm. No enlargement.
This follows the user's printed-fit feedback. Only the body changes;
the angled-battery rear cover remains compatible and is copied into this output.
All battery tilt, housing height, rim pockets and hidden catches remain as below.

PREVIOUS REVISION — superseded only for USB opening dimensions

CURRENT REVISION — 1 mm taller, angled battery and integral backplate wedge
Source: angled_battery_stand.py. Output: output/angled-battery/.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python angled_battery_stand.py

Housing and screen sit 1 mm above the original fitted design (1 mm lower than
output/taller-hidden-clips). Battery leans 10 degrees toward the backplate.
The lower pocket extends forward, with a tilted seat and full-width 3 mm return
lip. A 30 mm wide wedge integral with the backplate supports the rear face.
Nominal pack: 50 x 34 x 10 mm; checked envelope: 52 x 34.8 x 10.8 mm.
The crown's inner wall is 1.6 mm to clear the tilted pack during rear insertion;
flat sides, front and floor remain 2.4 mm. Both body and cover must be reprinted.

Fit battery to the detached cover: raise it 3.2 mm along its tilted length,
slide over the pocket lip, then lower onto the seat. Fit PCB first using the
lower rim pockets, then insert cover and battery together from the rear.
CAD checks use the populated manufacturer STEP and the maximum battery
box. Actual wires, mating battery plug, padding and printed fits need checking.

Retains the 3 mm rearward USB opening, low antirotation stops, lower PCB rim
pockets, three rear PCB retainers and concealed pull-release side catches.
Print PLA: 0.2 mm layers, 3 walls, 15% gyroid. Body upright; rear cover outside
face down. Inspect generated supports around the roof, pocket and retainer tips.
No print has been started automatically.

PREVIOUS REVISION — superseded where conflicting

CURRENT REVISION — taller body, lower PCB rim pockets, concealed catches
Source: fitted_stand.py. Output: output/taller-hidden-clips/.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python fitted_stand.py

Housing and screen are raised 2 mm; the battery pocket floor remains fixed.
Battery stays upright. Nominal width/thickness 34 x 10 mm with 0.4 mm per-side
clearance; allowance for 52 mm cell length, with its bottom still at Z=4 mm.
Both body and rear cover changed; reprint both from this output directory.

USB: opening CENTER moves 3 mm away from the angled front face along local
-Z. This replaces all earlier vertical/upward offsets. Opening depth is also
widened from 7.4 to 11.4 mm so the shift does not obscure the modeled socket.
It retains the flared outer entry and 52 mm case width.

Front shell: USB-tab rotation stops and straight perimeter guides terminate
0.10 mm forward of the component-side PCB surface, locating only the PCB edge.
Two lower tabs (240 and 300 degrees) now form shallow rim pockets: 0.8 mm
radial return and 0.5 mm clearance behind the PCB. Their lips occupy bare rim
regions outside the header bodies. Board assembly: tilt about 6 degrees back,
enter 1.2 mm above the seated position, slide down under the lips, then pivot
into the locating guides. The complete populated STEP is used for this path.
Rear-cover PCB retaining arms and battery pocket are retained from the fit revision.

Side catches: internal blind pockets retain 1.6 mm continuous exterior wall.
Clip hooks have a 1 mm release ramp. Pull the cover from its shallow underside
fingernail notch; ramps flex the clips inward without exterior release holes.
No screws, magnets or side access holes are required. Physical PLA clip force
and repeated opening still need testing; use the updated coupon pair if useful.

Print: PLA, 0.2 mm layers, 3 walls, 15% gyroid. Body upright; cover outside-face
down. Inspect supports under the roof, rim-pocket lips, retaining-arm elbows
and battery-pocket lip. Keep support out of the small catch recesses if possible.
As with previous revisions, the model omits your loose wires and mating battery
plug; gently check those during assembly. Do not force the board or battery.

HISTORICAL NOTES BELOW — superseded where conflicting

USB DIRECTION CORRECTION — current output: output/fitted-usb-rearward/
The user meant 1.5 mm AWAY FROM THE FRONT, not vertically upward.
The opening and flared entry now move along local -Z, perpendicular to the
angled display face. This replaces the prior +1.5 mm global-Z translation.
Only the body changes. The rear cover from output/fitted/ remains compatible.
Source remains fitted_stand.py; rebuild with .venv/bin/python fitted_stand.py.

CURRENT REVISION — physical-fit corrections from printed prototype
Source: fitted_stand.py. Preview: render_fitted.py.
Component contact audit: inspect_board_contacts.py.
Output: output/fitted/ (reprint body.stl AND cover_print.stl).
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python fitted_stand.py

USB: user requested +1.5 mm in global Z. Overall width is now 52 mm, bringing
the right outer wall 1 mm closer to the connector: nominal socket-face setback
4.92 mm (formerly 5.92 mm). A 1.2 mm deep flare widens the cable entry. Actual
cable overmould fit remains a physical check.

PCB: six perimeter guides at nominal radius 18.40 mm (about 0.15 mm radial
clearance). Two shaped rails follow the sloped USB-tab edges from the official
populated Waveshare STEP. Small seats support the tab's front side. They stop
short of the USB metal mouth. Insert the board from the rear, normal to the
screen plane, rather than translating it horizontally through the tighter guides.
Rear side fingers were repositioned to PCB edges and their crosspieces clear
the USB shell. The rigid tip gap is 0.15 mm; latch axial play is reduced to
0.1 mm, giving approximately 0.25 mm maximum axial free space. Optional very
soft 0.5 mm pads can take this up; verify that closure does not force the PCB.

The actual manufacturer reference includes PCB, USB shell, headers, buttons
and other components. The supplied photo was compared visually with its layout.
Header bodies are simplified blocks; attached wires and the mating battery
plug are not modeled. Orange dots in board_contacts.png mark intended contact
locations. The audit probes the full rearward column at each tip for components,
and assembled/insertion checks test complete fingers against the populated board.

Battery: user explicitly selected nominal 34 x 10 mm plus clearance, replacing
the previous maximum-size allowance. Pocket width/depth: 34.8 x 10.8 mm, with
0.4 mm clearance each side. Pocket assumes 50 mm cell length. Side guides
are closer, rear pads set depth, and a continuous 1.2 mm shelf spans the bottom.
A 4 mm high front return lip captures the bottom edge. Load the battery into
the cover from the front with the pack raised 5 mm, then lower into the pocket;
install the cover and battery together after seating the display. Use soft
removable restraint for the leads/upper pack if necessary; never force the pouch.

Print: PLA, 0.2 mm layers, 3 walls, 15% gyroid. Body bottom-down; cover outer
face-down. Inspect supports under roof, display aperture, arm elbows and pocket
front lip. Supplied STLs are oriented for printing. Physical fit is still required.

HISTORICAL REVISIONS BELOW — superseded by this fit revision

CURRENT REVISION — screwless rear-access PLA prototype
Source: screwless_stand.py. Render: render_screwless.py.
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python screwless_stand.py
Files: output/screwless/body.stl and cover_print.stl.
Optional PLA fit test: coupon_receiver_print.stl + coupon_cover_print.stl.
All four files are supplied in their intended print orientation.

Two integral cantilevers replace all four screws and their bosses. Arms:
16 mm long, 1.2 mm thick, 6 mm wide; 0.35 mm hook engagement beyond the
inner wall. Two side windows provide fingernail / plastic-tool release.
Press both tabs inward and pull the cover straight rearward. The bottom
locating tabs align the cover. Front lip, integral flat floor, 20-degree
screen/crown and upright battery are retained from the preceding revision.
The battery is temporarily secured in padded cover guides and goes in with
the cover, after the display. Three rigid arms require soft PCB-edge pads,
plus a soft front perimeter gasket. Use very soft 1 mm PCB-edge pads: the
rigid gap is 0.4 mm with the cover fully seated, up to 0.7 mm after the
0.3 mm latch play is taken up. Verify gentle pad compression physically;
do not force closure. This supersedes the earlier 0.6 mm pad suggestion.
No screws, magnets or separately purchased latches are required.

PLA snap coupon FIRST: 0.2 mm layers, 3 walls, 15% infill; supplied orientation.
Do not force a tight fit: tune snap_hook or snap_x before printing the main
parts. The coupon reproduces clip length, engagement, receiver wall and
print orientation. Cycle it several times and check root cracks and retention.
The simple cantilever estimate is 0.46% surface strain at 0.65 mm deflection;
it excludes stress concentrations, anisotropy and fatigue. Physical testing
is necessary. Collision checks use an inward-shifted clip envelope, not FEA.
Unreleased withdrawal was checked: shoulders contact the case after 0.5 mm
rearward travel. The seated geometry has no solid interference.

Full parts: PLA, 0.2 mm layers, 3 walls, 15% gyroid; body bottom down,
cover outer face down. Check supports under roof, display aperture and
retaining-arm elbows. Keep support away from clip mating faces where possible.
PLA fit testing is not a heat rating for the coffee machine. Surface temperature,
pad compression, real wires and USB cable fit remain unverified.

HISTORICAL REVISIONS FOLLOW — screw retention below is superseded

CURRENT REVISION — rear-access feature prototype (supersedes designs below)
Source: rear_access_stand.py. Preview: render_rear_access.py.
Output: output/rear-access/ (body.stl, cover_print.stl, assembly.step).
Rebuild: .venv/bin/python rear_access_stand.py

User chose PLA. Body stands on its integral 2.4 mm floor in the slicer;
no chamfer along the floor perimeter. Front bezel is integral, without holes.
Display angle and rounded crown remain 20 degrees; battery remains upright.
Back cover has three rigid arms with 0.4 mm assembled allowance for soft pads
at component-free PCB edge locations. Add a soft perimeter gasket between
front lip and inactive display border; do not apply pressure to active glass.
Four rear M2 x 8 mm thread-forming screws (1.7 mm prototype pilots) hold cover.
No front screws or separate bottom plate. Do not substitute longer screws.
Battery maximum envelope is still 52 x 36 x 12 mm, including maker tolerance.
Place battery in rear-cover side guides and secure with removable cushioned
adhesive before inserting cover and pack together. The integral floor supports
the pack; use soft packing adjusted to the actual pouch, never compress it.
Route the wire around the board before closing; actual lead/connector fit is
not represented by the manufacturer populated-board STEP.

Print body upright, cover outside-face-down (STL already oriented that way).
PLA prototype: 0.2 mm layer, 3 walls, 15% gyroid. Inspect supports under curved
roof and upper display aperture, plus the cover arm elbows/tips. Cover posts
grow upward from the bed face.
Physical pad compression, pilot fit, wires, cable overmould and coffee-machine
surface temperature remain unverified. This is a feature prototype.

HISTORICAL ITERATIONS BELOW — superseded where conflicting

Coffee display stand — current design: compact_stand.py

Latest revision: the semicircular crown is aligned with the tilted display plane.
Its roof slopes downward toward the rear by 20 degrees; the battery remains upright.
Current outputs are in output/angled-rounded/. Earlier shapes remain in their output folders.

Measured dimensions and clearances are recorded in output/angled-rounded/fit-check.json.
Exterior chamfers: 2 mm. Crown radius: 27 mm.
Screen angle: 20 degrees from vertical. Battery angle: 0 degrees (upright).
Screen tilt remains configurable; battery position and enclosure depth adapt.
The screen center is raised to 47.5 mm and the battery center lowered to 29 mm
to preserve clearance underneath the newly sloping roof.

Assembly:
1. With the bottom lid and front bezel removed, insert the battery from below.
2. Bring its lead into the accessible front opening and connect the display module.
3. Insert the complete Waveshare module from the front, USB-C facing right.
4. Seat the PCB on three supports. Guides locate the PCB edge, clearing the USB tab.
5. Fit a soft perimeter gasket and the flush front bezel; four front screws retain it.
6. Close the bottom lid. Lid fastening and battery restraint are still pending.

The bezel sits against the enclosure; its screws must not clamp the active display.
The proposed bezel screws are M2 x 6 mm thread-forming screws with a provisional
1.7 mm pilot; test the pilot in the final material before installing the electronics.
The USB opening has provisional 14 x 7.4 mm cable clearance. Confirm your cable.

Checks in output/angled-rounded/fit-check.json:
- Complete manufacturer board STEP clears the enclosure at sampled front insertion positions.
- Maximum 52 x 36 x 12 mm pack clears the case and board at sampled bottom insertion positions.
- The settled maximum pack must have at least 1 mm separation from the board STEP.
- Exported enclosure, bezel and bottom lid are valid watertight volume meshes.
These are CAD checks; physical component tolerances, flexible wiring, battery retention,
temperature suitability, print orientation and final fasteners remain unverified.

Reproduce the compact model:
  .venv/bin/python compact_stand.py --screen-tilt 20 --battery-tilt 0 --render

Files: compact_stand.py, render_compact.py, output/angled-rounded/compact_preview.png,
output/angled-rounded/assembly_exploded.png, output/angled-rounded/compact_assembly.step.
assembly_study.py provides the verified manufacturer-board coordinate transform;
model.py and render_concept.py preserve the original study and shared render helpers.

Historical phase 1 shape study

Status: awaiting shape feedback, NOT a finished print-ready enclosure.
Default size: 66 x 50 x 74.77 mm. Screen tilt: 20 degrees from vertical.
Tilt is a CAD parameter, not a moving joint. Supported study range: 0–40 degrees.
X is right, Y is rear, Z is up; the viewer stands in front (-Y).

Battery: MakerFocus 2000 mAh, nominal 50 x 34 x 10 mm, ±2 mm manufacturer tolerance.
Reserve 56 x 40 x 14 mm inside the base. Maximum specified pack fits without
intersecting the walls or lid. Actual pack/wiring fit must be checked before printing.

Board: Waveshare RP2040-LCD-1.28, as identified from the supplied product screenshot.
Official STEP reference bounds are 36.524 x 39.512 x 6.500 mm.
The round PCB drawing gives R18.25 mm; the active display is diameter 32.4 mm.
Rotate the board in its plane for USB-C on the right and rotate the display UI to match.
Screen and battery solids in the concept render are visual proxies only.

Pending phase 2: aperture, board retention, USB plug opening, wire route, rear
cover, fasteners. Phase 3: edge finishing, feet, print orientation and final validation.
Machine model, heated-tray status, printer, and material are still unconfirmed.
No thermal performance or final hardware-fit claim has been made.

Files:
  model.py                   Parametric CadQuery model
  render_concept.py          Coloured concept image
  validate.py                Solid/mesh/tilt checks plus Flowful technical renderer
  output/concept.png         Assembly + side view + open battery base
  output/technical_preview.png  Six-view preview from Flowful's tool
  output/concept_*.stl       Shape-study meshes only; no completed mounts/ports
  output/concept_assembly.step  Tray and upper body as separate solids

Reproduce:
  uv venv --python 3.12 .venv
  uv pip install --python .venv/bin/python -r requirements.txt --override overrides.txt
  .venv/bin/python model.py --tilt 20
  .venv/bin/python validate.py
  .venv/bin/python render_concept.py

validate.py uses the installed Flowful skill's preview module.
PyOpenGL is overridden for compatibility with the local Python/NumPy runtime.
The render entry points restore np.infty for the older pyrender API.
The initial Flowful runner could not discover STLs in the output subdirectory;
validation therefore uses its standalone preview module and explicit mesh checks.

Sources:
https://files.waveshare.com/upload/a/a2/RP2040-LCD-1.28-3D-Drawing.zip
https://m.media-amazon.com/images/I/91KARirSXkL.pdf
https://www.makerfocus.com/products/makerfocus-3-7v-2000mah-lithium-rechargeable-battery-1s-3c-lipo-battery-with-protection-board-pack-of-4
